---
date: 2025-10-26
---

# Updates from 2025-10-26 (be125e36)

https://gitlab.com/octospacc/Pignio/-/commit/be125e3628c1bbb3a900e1bd589f80d118768ba3

+ Added support for MIDI files in the backend, as well as experimental in-browser playback thanks to JavaScript and the spessasynth_lib project.
+ Expanded the video trimming feature, to now support both video and audio files.
+ Added labels showing content languages on item pages, similar to other systags.
+ Added support for thumbnails of videos, generated as small and short animated GIFs, which greatly reduces server and client load when viewing an item list with many videos.
+ Added a feature to switch rendering mode, from the default (linear-filtered) to pixelated, for both images and video, ideal for viewing pixel art.
+ Improved the tooltips on various label-less buttons, using UIKit tooltips instead of just the HTML5 `title` attribute.
+ Now ensuring that the comments on the user page appear ordered (from newest to oldest).
+ Fixed some small audio/video trimming issues on the frontend, and generally improve its features.
+ Fixed a bug where the clickable overlay would appear on video items not marked as NSFW, where it wouldn't accept any input, thus blocking mouse/touch interaction with the video element.
+ Fixed a bug where GIF images wouldn't show a thumbnail in item lists, since the frontend attempted to get a thumbnail from the dedicated `/thumbs/` endpoint, but the backend rejected generating thumbnails for GIFs, by now just showing the full image always.
+ Fixed the theme switching to hopefully be faster and less failure-prone, by not redirecting the response to the site index, which would otherwise cause a long delay in the response acceptance.
